# What's Gevamu?

[Gevamu (from Sinhala: ගෙවමු – *Let’s pay*)](https://gevamu.com/) is a payment solution, based on [R3 Corda](https://www.r3.com/products/corda/), and developed by [Exactpro Systems](https://exactpro.com/) for funds distribution between a payer and a payment service provider. 

## Functionality

Gevamu Payments Solution allows a payer ( :term[participant]{term=participant}) to initiate secure payment flows to a :term[payment service provider]{term=PSP}(PSP) using nodes in a :term[Corda Business Network]{term='CBN'}.
Gevamu then manages this payment :term[flow]{term="flow"} by creating and updating Corda :term[states]{term="states"} at each stage of the payment flow.

A payment flow is initiated after a :term[payment instruction]{term="PI"} (ISO20022 payment document) is submitted to Gevamu by the Participant via a UI.
The payment instruction is checked and validated by Gevamu for requirements and then relayed to the PSP.
Gevamu will receive a status update from the PSP after the payment instruction is processed and returns the results to the Participant.

## Structure

Gevamu consists of 2 parts: a payments SDK and payment gateway. These components are used to create corDapps which are installed in nodes. The nodes are deployed in a corda business network managed by a :term[Business Network Operator]{term="BNO"} (BNO)

- **Gevamu  Payments SDK**: a Java/ Kotlin library containing methods and classes used by the payment flow.
Payments SDK is distributed as an open-source software under Apache-2.0 Licence and its source code is [available on GitHub](https://github.com/gevamu/corda-payments-sdk).
The Payment SDK is required to create and is the core of the Payment CorDapp. 
<!-- Binaries are to be published in a Central Maven Repository. -->

- **Payment CorDapp**: Developed by the BNO, Participant, or some third party using the Gevamu Payments SDK.
The Payment CorDapp is installed in the Participant Node and receives payment instructions from the participant.

- **Gevamu Payment Gateway**: Proprietary technology developed and licenced by Exactpro to manage payment flows. The Gateway sets up off-chain communication with the PSP, and on-chain communication with the Payments SDK. The Gateway will relay payment instructions from the Participant to the PSP and receive status updates from the PSP. 
The Gevamu Payments Gateway is installed in the Payment Gateway CorDapp. 

- **Payment Gateway CorDapp**: Validates payment instructions, and sends them to the PSP. Receives status updates from the PSP and relays to the Participant via the Payment corDapp.
The Gateway corDapp is installed in the Gateway Node. 

The Gevamu Payments SDK and Payments Gateway are developed based on R3 Corda 4.x. 

System requirements of the implementation depend on the scope of a final system. 
For hardware and software requirements for development on Corda, see official [R3 documentation](https://docs.r3.com/en/platform/corda/4.8/open-source/getting-set-up.html).

